---
date: 2024-12-31 00:00:00
---

## Home

We're just finishing up that no-mans-land between Christmas and New Year, which has always felt like a good time to write for me. J has been unwell for basically all of Christmas, which has curtailed our plans somewhat, although I think she's more irritated that she will probably be feeling better just in time to get back to work. I myself am trying not to show how happy I am that I booked two more days off than she did.

We're also currently planning our honeymoon to Greece - it's a much less stressful experience than the wedding planning was, but equally as love-filled and enjoyable. We disagree on just about the same number of things as we did then too, but it's still taking shape nicely nonetheless.

## Language

We've been watching _Senna_ on Netflix which has been really helpful for me; I'm not exposed to too much Brazilian Portuguese in media, so while it takes a lot more concentration that listening to English, I've been pleasantly surprised at how much I can follow along with. 

We probably won't make it to Brazil this year, so I'm going to take what I can get while I can get it.

## Running

I managed to crack out a ~19 minute 5k on Christmas Day parkrun back in Blyth. Not really a good benchmark for my longer distance times, but it was still good to know it was possible, and realistically was not a 100% effort from me. I think in January I will try to find a local timed 5k to give full beans to before I start getting into a proper training cycle just to see what I can do.

## What Am I Reading

_Humble Pi: A Comedy of Maths Errors_ by Matt Parker. I've watched a lot of Matt's videos over the years, and his writing style is equally as engaging.

I'm hoping to get back to reading more regularly this year; the big obstacle is that I prefer to read before bed, but since J typically goes to bed before I do, by the time I get there, I don't want to turn the lights back on to read...