---
date: 2025-03-22 00:00:00
---

## Home

Jú moving to Barcelona has had more of an impact on my routine than I'd have liked overall; it feels very stop-start with seeing her every other weekend or so. I have managed to maintain a rhythm with my fitness routine though which I'm pleased with, it had been a bit disjointed previously, and I've ticked off a few things on the to-do list that had been there for several months, so productive perhaps? 

That said, the time we've had together over the last couple of months has been pretty great; probably the best space we've been in since we got married, so maybe it's all actually working out? I feel like it's going to be the sort of thing that we'll only know when it's over.

## Running

I ran the Alloa half marathon a couple weeks ago to trial some potential marathon shoes, and ended up running only 11 seconds short of a PB (on three hours sleep and an undulating course), so I feel I can say that I've got that ticked off at least. Not too many weeks to go to build long-run distance, but as Edinburgh is only a B race this year I'm not overly concerned just yet.

## Writing

Despite claiming that this year was going to be the Year of Writing, I've not really moved the needle too much in this area. I've _thought about_ writing lots, but I've not carved out the space to do so, outwith my daily journal, and a monthly update here. 

## What Am I Reading

_The Anxious Generation_ by Jonathan Haidt. 

I bought this on a bit of a whim on a trip to London last month (WHSmith and the buy-one-get-one-half-price always gets me), and it's engaging and depressing in equal measures. It's almost making me rethink having children (almost); being a child is _hard_ now. I'm not too far into it just yet, but I don't think it'll take too long to progress!