---
title:          "Hiatus"
date:           2025-01-01 12:00:00 +0000
tags:           resolutions introspection júlia
categories:     goals
---

Three years and one day ago was the last time I wrote in this blog. So much has changed in that time, but I've never felt the block on writing shift until recently.

<!-- Read More -->

## What's New?

Oh my, so much. Since I last wrote here, my relationship with Jú has grown massively; we moved in together (into my old flat on the Royal Mile, which was a bit of a tight squeeze with Charlie, Tommy, and Tegan too) in August 2022. In October 2023, in the span of a week, we got engaged and moved out of the Royal Mile flat into a place in the suburbs of South Edinburgh that we bought together (I have my own _office_ now! And Jú doesn't need to work from the dining room table), and then in September this year, we got married up in Perthshire. I think I want to write about the wedding and marriage separately though. No details yet.

## 2025 Goals

I still don't do "specific goals" anymore, preferring instead to pick a [theme for the year](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NVGuFdX5guE), which I have done since 2022. That year was the **Year of Language**, which was incidentally also the theme for 2024 (2023 was the **Year of Running Again**, and I ran a marathon PB in Amsterdam that year).

A big reason that this approach appeals to me is that since I was 18, I've always retrospectively titled my year in the style of a _Friends_ episode: "The One Where..." with a big event or change (good or bad) that happened to me. Distilling the calendar into a single

This year will be the **Year of Writing**. 

I had to write more than usual this year, and honestly it took me out of my comfort zone, which I was surprised at since I used to really enjoy writing. Granted, I've never had to write my marriage vows or a best man speech before, but I still didn't think it would be as daunting or difficult to write as it was. 

Therefore, I've decided that this year I want to write more. Some on here, some personal things, probably some things that are just for Jú. I've also got myself a One Line A Day journal which I'm starting today. I have no idea if I will actually write something every day for the next five years (and I'm also not making it a target to do so), but it'll be interesting to see how that goes.

My previous year's themes are not going away either; I have signed back up for another semester of Portuguese at the university, and I got in to the Chicago Marathon in October, the training block for which will likely be a big chunk of my year. But not the theme; what I want to be the focus this year is my writing above all.

--- 

## Episode Titles

Since I went to think about them anyway while I was writing, these are my year titles. They aren't structured, clean, or even necessarily coherent, but they're representative nonetheless.

The season breaks don't actually mean anything, but I guess I would kinda group the stages of my adult life like this if I thought about it. 

### Season Three

- 2025 (33) - TBD...
- 2024 (32) - The One Where We Got Married
- 2023 (31) - The One Where We Moved To Liberton
- 2022 (30) - The One Where Jú Moved In
- 2021 (29) - The One Where I Fell For Jú

### Season Two 

- 2020 (28) - The One Where I Got Engaged To Danny
- 2019 (27) - The One Where I Joined FanDuel
- 2018 (26) - The One Where I Met Danny
- 2017 (25) - The One Where I Joined Avaloq
- 2016 (24) - The One Where I Adopted Charlie

### Season One

- 2015 (23) - The One Where I Bought My First Flat
- 2014 (22) - The One Where I Graduated From Uni
- 2013 (21) - The One Where I Started To Travel
- 2012 (20) - The One Where I Moved To Scotland
- 2011 (19) - The One Where I Had That Big Birthday
- 2010 (18) - The One Where I Started Uni